Hello everyone. Let's talk about clot
skills today. So using clot skills, we
can teach claude about new abilities,
how to execute the workflow, how to
automate something with more
constraints, more processes and more
accuracy. You can think of clot skill as
a reusable instruction or a workflow
which can be created once but it can be
used as many number of times we want by
our clot. So using skills it can do
anything basically which can match with
our existing tone with our existing
brand as well as our existing
architectural guideline and we just need
to provide some instructions and boom we
are all set. So in this video I will
show you why do we need cloth skills how
to create your very first clot skills in
a stepbystep fashion. So that would be a
very simple clot skill that can get you
started with writing your own skills.
And then we will see how we can
um judge or visualize whether all the
skills are loaded in the memory or not.
So that is the agenda for today's video.
So let me quickly point you to the
reasons why we need cloud skills. So
yeah, so these are the key reasons why I
believe cloth skills are very much
useful. So we know that cloth can do lot
many things but we can make it better.
We can make it work in a more seamless
way, the more expected way and these are
the key reasons which you can think of.
The very first one is automative
repeated tasks. So cloth skills let you
turn your common workflow workflows into
oneshot commands whether it is related
to your formatting, summarizing,
cleaning data, generating code patterns
or anything where you want to repeat
something. Then we have adding new
capabilities. So we can extend clot
beyond its default behavior. So by
default it doesn't execute scripts. But
if you want you can make your cloud
execute scripts. You can make it call
APIs. You can make claude query your
databases, trigger certain actions or
integrate with your own tools. So all
these things you can do using skills.
Then the third one here is reduce
prompting overhead. So if you're not
using skill then everything would be the
part of prompt whether it could be your
user prompt or it could be your system
prompt but eventually it would be the
prompt. Instead of this what we are
doing here is instead of writing long
instructions we can wrap them into a
reusable skill that cla can call
instantly depending on the scenario
depending on user's query. So that is
another very useful thing to reduce a
contextual window.
Then we have enable multi-step
reasoning. So skills uh let claude chain
actions together. So let's say you have
steps first go and fetch the data then
analyze it then write some query and
notify the user with the output. So this
is kind of a sequence wherein we are
doing one after another in a workflow
fashion. So without skills you cannot do
this with cloud as of today.
Then we can also integrate cloud into
real workflows and this particular
scenario is very useful for developers,
teams and the creators who want cloud to
interact with their systems or pipelines
or existing applications. It also
improves speed and productivity. You can
even think it as a tool which is using
AI agent and I think that's a very good
analogy when we are understanding
skills. We can also create customer
custom behavior for our project. So we
can make cloud understand how it should
respond, how it should think and even
how it should behave in a certain or
inside any environment. So these are the
things we can get done when we are going
with clot skills otherwise these would
have been little bit more tedious or may
need lot much of effort. Now let me
quickly show you how you can create your
very first skill in VS code and I would
request you not to skip this video
because whatever I'm talking is very
much interrelated to what I have already
spoken.
So I'm in VS code here. Let me remove
this file so that everything will be
clean here. Okay. So this is my empty
folder. So inside this empty folder the
very first thing I will be doing is I'm
going to create
a folder
and we'll name it as dotcl
would be creating another folder and
we'll name it as skills because this is
the folder where our skills are going to
reside. Then inside skill you need to
create another folder. I will tell you
why we are creating folder instead of
file. But let's uh give some name to our
skills. So I'm going to use greet skill.
So this is the idea I took from
Holland's video and that was pretty good
like how you can get started with a
hello world application. So that's the
reason I'm taking greet skill
and under greet skill. So this is a
folder. So inside this I will be now
creating my skill MD file. So let's name
it as
skill MD. So this is the structure we
are going to follow. So in a while you
will get to know why I have created this
folder. But let's go with whatever I
have created um as of now. Now
this is a file where we are going to
define what our skill will be or what
this particular skill is all about. So
let's start by defining the very first
thing which is the metadata of the
skill. So when I'm saying metadata,
it is about
the data which can talk a little bit
about your skills. So the bare minimum
which we need here is
name
and we need description.
So these are the two things which we
need to define over here. So in a name I
can simply say greet
we can name it a greet skill you can
give any name which can tell that what
the skill is all about and then I need
to write some description over here. So
for description I can say
a simple skill that would be used to
greet user whenever user is saying hello
or hi. So this is what
the description is.
Let me refphrase it a bit so we can put
it in quotes.
And this skill will be invoked only when
user is greeting with hello or hi. Now
we have defined just two things as a
metadata here. But the key thing to
remember here is you have to go with
bare minimum thing. The bare minimum
words which can tell that what the skill
is all about. We need not to write whole
paragraph explaining this because this
is what it will increase uh because this
is the thing which can increase your
token size or number of token counts. So
let's go with bare minimum and I think
this line is simple enough and small
enough to tell the clot that okay this
skill is about greeting.
Perfect. Now we have defined our
metadata. Next thing is we need to
uh define
like the instructions what instructions
are required to invoke this skill. So
for that I would simply say uh
use this skill whenever user greets with
hello or hi.
Perfect. Now this is the instruction
which can make Claude think that okay I
need to go ahead and execute this. So
this instruction is small enough and I
think we are good with this.
Now we have created our skill. Let's see
how we can use this small skill inside
our chat window. So for that I have
already installed the extension and now
you can see here I'm having a clot code.
So if you don't know how to do this go
check out my shots. In that I have
explained every single step which can
pull this clot code in your VS code. I'm
going to ask
what skills do you have
and it should come up with the skills
which are in build as well as the one
which we have just defined. So let me
save this and hit enter.
Perfect. So here you can see these are
the list of skills which are already or
I would say inbuilt with cloth. I have
not installed or updated it. But the
most important thing here is the greet
skill which is the one we created just
few seconds back. And it has the
description greet the user when they say
hello or hi.
So here you can see that now it was able
to pick our skill which we created just
few minutes back.
Next thing is we want to
tell claude that how it should behave or
respond whenever this skill is invoked.
So for that you need to write again few
things.
I would say
respond with
it's nice to meet you. Congratulations,
you are using your very first skill. So
I think this much
text is enough. I can reduce this one.
Okay.
So I'm saying respond with it's nice to
meet you. Congratulations. You're using
your very first skill. Now I will save
the skill here and
simply say hello.
And you can see it was able to pick up
our skill greet skill because we said
that whenever I'm saying hello or hi you
should use greet skill and the message
here is it's nice to meet you
congratulations you are using your very
first skill. So it is responding with
the same thing which we have defined
here as a tone or as a output text. Now
let's make it a little bit more complex
and we'll say that let's say we want to
execute few lines of code and that code
could be either in your python node
javascript whatever you want to write uh
but I'm going with the python so
I'm going to
say python and
inside this I'm going to write just two
lines of bare minimum code because I
just want to show you how it executes
but in your case it could be your custom
function or it could be more lines of
code instead of just these two. So now I
have written this which means that I
want these lines to be executed. But
before that let's add a little bit more
instructions over here and say
uh let's ask it to do something
run the following Python code before
every single message and append the
output to your message. So this is what
I want to do. So whenever it is
responding to hello or hi, I want this
to be executed as well. I'm going to
save this
and let's try again.
It is asking me permission because this
is script.
And here you go. So it was able to give
you that message and then the current
date and time. Now this format could be
anything depending on what it is
speaking. But if you want you can set
that as well here in your script. But we
got an idea that whenever we want to
execute some code we can definitely make
that as part of
our skill empty file. Now I'm assuming
that we will not be having single script
when we are working with production
application. There could be multiple
lines of code or multiple scripts or the
functions which we want to execute. So
in that case pushing it here is not a
good idea because it will make this file
completely like messy and it would be
too long and we just scrolling and
scrolling to reach to certain point. So
instead of doing it here how about
putting into a separate file outside and
then refer that file over here. So for
that
I'm going to the skills greet skills.
That is the reason I created this folder
here because this folder will create
everything or it will hold everything
which is required for this skills to get
executed. Now I'm going to create
a scripts. So for that we can say we can
create a new folder
scripts and inside this script I can
create my pi file. So
get
current
date time.py.
So this would be my file name here. And
inside this file I will write just few
lines of code. So what I will be doing
is I'm going to
remove it from here and
paste it over here. So we have our file
ready.
Next thing is we need to define
something here so that it will get to
know that okay I need to
use that file right. So for that I would
say
respond.
Okay, before uh this response statement,
we need to associate that script file
into this particular skill MD. So I
would say run the script
and here I would define that relative
path of that file which is get current
datetime.py pi and I would say uh to
obtain current date time before every
single message and append the output to
your message. Now this is my final
prompt. So instead of doing this
I can simply say run the script and
do it. So let me execute this and show
you. And here apart from that
what we can do is uh we can go here and
instead of doing this
or let's leave it as it is first I will
show you the output of this one. Now
this time if I will say
hello,
it should still invoke our greet skill
and
give us the output.
So you can see although we changed our
MD file but still we are getting the
response with the current date and time
as well as the user def uh as well as
the message defined inside that MD file.
So till here everything is good. We were
able to execute our script. Now think
about a scenario
wherein you want to change the output.
You don't want to show current date and
time every time rather you want to show
something different.
So for that what we can do we can write
some workflows. So step one whenever
user is saying hello show this message.
when user is saying any other message of
like in the second turn or the first
turn onwards you just show the smiley.
So this is the workflow we are trying to
create. So till now we have defined our
metadata we have defined our trigger
function how to invoke this and we have
defined how to make a call to the
script. Next we will see how we can use
templating to extend this demo a little
bit more.
And the reason why we are using
templating is because we are sure that
every time we are not going to invoke
the same script. It could be something
different depending on the scenario. So
for that we need to create templates and
template can be created at the same
level as the skill.md file. So I would
say
template MD. Now there is no defined
rules
that you have to give in caps but you
can go with even the lower case letters.
Template dot emptyd file. Now inside
this one I would say
respond
with
and we can say current date time.
So this is my template here which I have
created and then we need to update this
code a bit as well.
So for that I would say
now I'm going to change this flow a
little bit and I would say let's define
a workflow.
I would say first step in my workflow
maybe you can write here if you want for
your description which we usually write
whenever we are writing markdown files.
So step one would be I would say
first time greet and sorry
first time greet and for that I would
say
if user is saying hello for the first
time then run the script. So
run the script. I would grab this part
as it is from here because we don't want
to we can't change this. We need
reference of our script file in this
particular workflow step. So I'm saying
to obtain the current date and time that
is fine. Next thing is I'm going to
define my next message. I would say
respond with the template.
Oops, something is messed up.
Okay, so here I need to say respond with
template and the template thing we need
to define here.
So for script we use the square bracket.
Similarly we have to do for the template
as well and we need to define the path
of our template which is relative path
and I would say dot template.
Okay. So till here everything is fine
but my second step or in my workflow
there is point number two in which I
want to say
other greets. So if it's not the first
time then I want to show something
different over here. So for other greets
I would say
respond with a smiley.
This is my simple instruction here. Now
let's go ahead and try this out.
I would close this one so that we can
have everything fresh
and just say hello.
It is invoking our skill and it should
say
hello with the date time.
Perfect. It's nice to meet you and this
is the very first time we are doing. If
I'm again saying hello this time it
should not do the same thing. It should
just give me the smiley because this is
what my workflow is saying. So here you
understood that how to create a
workflow, how you can invoke the script
depending on your situation, how you can
template anything. So rather than every
time you can also define something else,
you can have 10 different templates and
you can just conditionally plug those
here. So this is how a simple script or
the skill file you can create. Now you
must be one at this point we're able to
run our templated code. It means that
now we can add lot many templates here
and associate with a given skill. Now
whether it is with respect to your
database, whether it is with respect to
your API call or even about executing
your custom script. In fact, everything
you can do using these skills and it can
be done. We have seen it just now. So
you may be thinking that I'm defining my
skills and what if I'm defining 10, 20,
30 different skills for the same
project. Is it going to take that much
that much of tokens? let's say 10
scripts or 10 skills then will it take
total number of tokens in each file
times 10? No, this is not how our skills
work. So let me quickly point you to a
URL which talks about
progressive disclosures. So it should be
here. Yeah. So how skills work these are
this is the good point about or the best
part about the skills. So whenever we
are talking about the skills or whenever
the cloud is trying to load skill it
doesn't load entire file at once in
first step it will just go with the
advertise step in which it will read
metadata which is only name and
description and then it will see if that
skill is actually required. So let's say
if you have 10 different skills then it
will read only 20 lines approximately
name description for every single script
and it's not going to read your entire
skill file that you need to understand
and that is the reason I said keep your
description as small as possible because
every prompt will consider that as a
token.
So that is the first step. So it will
just go ahead with the name and the
description and we'll try to inject with
the system prompt or every user prompt.
Then the second step comes is when you
want to
whenever the skill matches what you want
to do next do you want to load the
skill? Yes, load the skills and the
tools which are defined here for the
skill MD.body and it is going to have
the detailed instructions. The second
thing is reading the resources. So as
you can see we have defined our
templates. So templates would be the
third step. Whenever those are actually
required then only it will invoke those
or use uh the code we have written for
the template. And the fourth one is
running the script. So although you must
have written hundreds of custom
functions but it is not going to load
all of these in the memory as a first
instance. It will see if it is really
required then only it will go ahead and
invoke those functions. So this is how
it works. So first you it will go with
advertise then it will load. So which is
approximately less than 5,000 tokens.
Then it will go ahead and read resources
if there are any references there are
any files or any supplementary documents
if you have attached. And then only it
will go ahead and run your scripts or
the
code. So that's why we are saying that
skills are very very useful feature and
it can help you reduce context size as
well. I hope you enjoyed watching this
and do let me know what skills have you
created for your project. Thanks for
watching.